---
layout: post
title: "Writing fiction"
date: 2016-12-24
---

You may have seen some recent(http://www.space.com/34044-moon-birth-may-have-vaporized-earth.html) articles(http://gizmodo.com/we-were-wrong-about-where-the-moon-came-from-1786527147) claiming dramatic new theories regarding the formation of Earth’s moon. These posts source a recent article published in Nature(http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nature19341.html). Now, from the perspective of researchers in the field, this new information certainly is a significant change to their understanding of the intricacies of the formation of the Earth/Moon system. From the perspective of the scientifically-literate layperson, however, it’s really no big deal.

Allow me to explain.

I guess I should start at the beginning. The known universe is probably 13.8 billion years old – at least that’s how long ago we’ve determined the big bang to have occurred. After a couple of generations of super-giant stars forming and exploding, our solar system began to form from the remnants of these explosions, about 8 billion years after the big bang. Gravitational forces will gradually cause a gigantic cloud of gas and dust to coalesce into stars, planets and other smaller rocky objects. In the early days of the formation of our own solar system, things were far more chaotic and busy than we see them today, with many very large objects flying around in irregular ‘orbits’ of the newly formed Sun.

Now, roughly speaking, the prevailing theory is that at some point around 4.5 billion years ago, one such giant rock (let’s call it ‘rock-1’) collided with another similarly large rock (‘rock-2’), causing an enormous explosion. The two bodies partly burst apart and partly coalesced, eventually stabilizing into a large rock and another smaller, orbiting rock: the Earth and the Moon. This is what’s known as the “giant-impact hypothesis” and has been our best theory for the formation of the Earth/Moon system for decades. I have glossed over some details in this explanation, but I think that regardless of whether you’re a layperson or an astronomer, you’ll agree that this is an understandable summary of the theory.

The new result recently published in Nature, is based on examination of lunar rocks brought back from the Apollo missions. One detail I missed from the summary of the giant-impact hypothesis is that we believed that when rock-1 and rock-2 collided, that they both only partly broke up and that one of the rocks mostly became the Earth, and the other mostly became the Moon. If true, that would suggest that Moon rocks and Earth rocks would look slightly different when examined with the right chemistry equipment. What Wang and Jacobsen discovered (using modern, sophisticated chemical analysis techniques) and published in Nature is, essentially, that Moon rocks and Earth rocks seem to all be made of exactly the same stuff, and further, that the dust that became Moon rocks was subjected to much higher temperatures than the more ‘mild’ collision would imply. In other words, it seems that the collision between rock-1 and rock-2 was significantly more violent than previously believed, and that the two rocks almost completely disintegrated into a single cloud of dust and rocks, and then re-formed into the Earth and Moon from that dust.

As with any new scientific theory that challenges a long-established one, more research and evidence will be required before it becomes the scientific consensus. I’d suggest keeping an eye out for such research in future, but it might not be sufficiently sexy to make the headlines.

Regardless. Two large rocks collided a long time ago and their remnants formed the Earth and the Moon. That’s the summary of the new research as far as a layperson is concerned, and it’s also a summary of the existing theory.
