---
layout: post
title: "WrestleMania weekend - Day 3"
date: 2017-04-02
---

## WrestleMania weekend - Day 3

### Wrestlemania 33!

At the start of the day I still did not have a ticket. At about 10am, I wandered downtown (about a mile from my Airbnb) to watch Arsenal v Man City in an Irish pub. I got there early enough to get a decent seat at the bar, unfortunately close to a super obnoxious City fan. The dude was American, but (very, very frequently and loudly) claimed to have been a fan since '89 and to have visited the UK to watch football multiple times. He often chanted 'CITEH! CITEH!' in a weird fake Mancunian accent to the annoyance of everyone else in the bar.

Anyway, the match was fine, and I nursed a beer (and ate a bacon sandwich). It finished 2-2, and I wandered back to my room to have a nap and look for tickets online.

At about 3, I gave up on searching online and decided I'd just get tickets at the venue. I stopped for a big pizza and a couple of beers at an Anthony's on the way to the 3 mile walk to the stadium, arriving at about 4:30 - an hour before showtime. I eventually found 'riser' tickets (i.e., not in the stadium seating, but not on the 'floor' either) for $230 (more-or-less face value, which I probably could have done a better job of negotiating - especially if I'd waited longer before the start time). They were a spare ticket from a guy from Tunbridge Wells (30 miles from where I grew up), so to some extent I didn't mind paying a premium to sit next to a guy for whom I felt an affinity. For his part he seemed to enjoy sitting next to someone a) of a similar age; b) from the same part of England who: c) had like him had moved to the US several years ago; and d) knew a lot more about the current plot-lines and was happy to fill him in.

My view wasn't amazing, but I could see probably about as well as most people who hadn't paid the best part of a grand or more, and the big screens were also in my field of vision so I could alsways look at those when the action was out of view. Also of note, we were quite close to the entrance ramp so the wrestlers walked within about 50ft of us on their way down.

Overall it was a fun show and really interesting to be at in person. A very different experience to watching at home. Given that the show started at 5:30 and finished at midnight I'm sure it would have been far harder to stay interested watching on TV (though I'm entertaining the idea of rewatching the show on TV when I get home... weed will be involved for sure).

Highlights included AJ Styles vs Shane-O-Mac, which was a fun opener to the main show. The return of the Hardys (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BVeC9wXZLUc) which was somehow a big surprise but also not entirely unexpected (though made more awesome by the fact that a) I saw them wrestle in front of a MUCH smaller crowd 2 days prior, and b) that they walked right past me at the hotel the day before). The show closed with the Undertaker's final match and retirement, as he sank into the stage right in front of our seats (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r91IMlc5fuI). It also wont be often that someone will be able to say they saw both main WWE championships (and the Raw Tag, and SD Women's) change hands on the same evening.

A fun show, but honestly I don't think Wrestlemania is for the serious wrestling fan. Indeed, there were clearly many 'casual' fans even at the event itself (eg the guy next to me who just happened to see that the card included the Undertaker and wasn't fussed about dropping a grand on tickets to see a show the 10-year-old version of him would have been super jealous of, or the family the other side of me, which included a poor mother who spent 90% of the show looking after the baby... somewhere other than the seats they'd paid a few hundred bucks for).

After the show, I walked the 3 miles back to my Airbnb, and got to bed around 1am. Definitely an experience I'm very glad to have had. I'm still on the fence about whether I'll do it again, and about where that show stands versus the other shows I've been to over the weekend (I write this 2 hours before the traditionally far more exciting post WM Raw show I'm about to attend).

