---
layout: post
title: "Notes on S"
date: 2017-09-21
---

Recently S told me that while she thinks I'm awesome and enjoys my company, that for whatever reason she doesn't feel that she can 'love' me (or maybe anyone). She thinks that perhaps she's used up her ability to love, that past relationships have drained from her the ability to feel that way ever again. In trying to understand what love even is, I defined it to mean that the person you're in love with makes you feel like a more awesome version of yourself. I guess the better the person makes you feel about yourself the closer to 'in love' that you get. My suspicion, therefore, is that there's some way in which I don't sufficiently make S feel like a more awesome version of herself. Perhaps her past heartbreak left her in a position where she started to put real value in her singlehood. She is an outstandingly self-sufficient woman who has achieved great success (especially in the form of doing a job she loves while living very comfortably, being able to enjoy herself and her favorite hobbies regularly). I wonder if it's possible that she feels that if my presence is somehow required for increased happiness that she's then somehow giving up something which she has worked hard to achieve and values greatly in herself, namely her status as a strong, independent force of a woman. If this is so, there's not a great deal I can do other than raise this as a possibility to her, and potentially talk through how I can be in her life without affecting this.

I need to think honestly about what life will actually be like without S in it. It's a distinct possibility that she says 'thanks but no thanks' - that the positives of some of the time we spend together is outweighed by the negatives she feels arise when attempting a relationship with me. If that happens, I wont have that feeling of 'happiness', at least, not for a while. It's possible not ever. There are a dearth of women who are just that right combination of wise, intelligent, witty, driven, successful but also fun, artistic, stylish, beautiful, all in just the mix she is. Honestly I can't think of any other examples - certainly not amongst the single. maybe I need to get out of Menver! It's hard to quantify exactly what life without S entails, because she's been in it so intermittently recently anyway. I was certainly miserable in the first quarter of the year (though able to distract myself with travel). I do get depressed when I'm single, but again, i don't have enough experience to know if that's purely loneliness (which has improved since becoming such good friends with Dani), or some fundamental need that otherwise goes unfulfilled. Not seeing S for 3 weeks (other than the occasional video call) was hard. But was it hard because I was trying to maintain a relationship in awkward circumstances? Or hard because I was for all intents and purposes single (but not on the market)? Both I guess. I also can't avoid that I don't like how I feel when I'm not having sex. I'm not looking forward to dating again. So many hard messages to send to even get a date, and then 90% of dates are utterly mediocre. And of the very few decent first dates, it doesn't take long before I start finding flaws in people and realize that a relationship is just never going to happen. S is an exceptionally rare find and I'm lucky to have even had her in my life for as long as I have. 

I do have a fear that what happened with S may happen again. Namely that it took me far longer than it should have to realize what a good thing I had going, and as a result I (possibly permanently) royally fucked the chances of developing a real relationship. I was very reluctant to turn it into a 'relationship' in the early days... for no good reason that I can think of other than still wanting to be on the market. Am I doomed to repeat that mistake, or am I wiser now? 

Relatedly, I still need to think slightly harder about what _precisely_ she adds to my life, and how (if at all) I might be able to replace those things. Is it really just that slightly hard-to-describe feeling of 'happiness' I have whenever I'm with her? I think the happiness itself arises from how comfortable I feel around her. I'm honestly a wittier, more confident, more comfortable-in-my-own skin person when I'm with her. Something about the combination of aspects of her personality. The fact she's super smart, feels almost exactly as I do on religion, politics, money and family. The fact that someone who I respect so much clearly just really likes the person I am, relaxes me, galvanizes me and makes me a cooler person. I don't recall ever really feeling this way around anyone before. That sounds quite remarkable when i say it out loud, but I think we all put on slightly different fronts when interacting even with close friends and family. I guess the front I put on around S just feels like all my best parts with less of my worst. I'm not explaining why S needs to be around for me to feel this way, or be that better version of myself. 

I do feel that she understands me in a way that very few others do. It's very possible to have good friends who you can talk to about any topic, who you're close to, etc, but that never quite 100% get where you're coming from. You have to take extra steps to explain what you mean. You can tell that their perspective just doesn't quite align with yours so you never feel truly _understood_. S is a very, very rare exception to this. I always feel understood and acknowledged. It's a very pleasant place to be.

It has all the ingredients to be an amazing, love-filled, supportive, exciting, _long-lasting_ relationship. Have I ever met literally anyone else I could ever say that about?




Can I (and do I want to) identify any negatives that I would experience in a relationship with S? 

-I would have to move to Seattle to be with her. Unless I'm dedicated to a life flying back and forth weekly, I don't see a way to reasonably keep my life in Denver while establishing a real relationship with someone who lives in Seattle. Over the past couple of months I've actually become quite used to the idea of moving there. Hell, as little as 6 months ago I was very actively thinking about the possibility of moving to another city/state/country anyway. Since then I've made friends with Dani, but I'm not certain a single friend (who may move herself) is quite enough reason to stick in a place. The only other reason is the house I bought and rather like living in, but I intentionally bought somewhere that could be rented out, and I'm certain I can find similarly awesome living situations. Seattle is a cool city, and while I haven't quite experienced enough of it to really be certain, I could definitely see myself enjoying living there. It has almost all of the things I like about Denver (exceptions being the sunny weather, low humidity, water quality, low chance of natural disasters, excellent running options (I need to research running in Seattle)). I'm not sure Seattle has any significant advantages over Denver - maybe slightly more diverse dining, proximity to another cool city (Portland), slightly more accessible airport (depending on where you live, I guess). I think Denver might still have a lot of changes ahead in the next 10-15 years, which might be less true for Seattle. The thought of living there, at least for a couple of years is honestly a fun prospect and one I'm considering regardless of what happens with S.

-Sometimes she talks too much about her own life and doesn't ask about how my day was. In her defense, I don't always feel like I have a lot that would be as interesting to talk about. That's probably a flaw in myself I should fix, anyway - why exactly do I deem her life, stories, and problems more noteworthy than my own? I'm sure she would listen if I brought stuff up and I do honestly enjoy hearing her talk about her day, her life, and the good and bad that she's been through.  

-Sex. She's had a particularly stressful year or so, and I feel like she's generally less interested in sex, or being sexy than perhaps she was once (certainly compared to the first months of our relationship). This could certainly change, but it is a difficulty right now. My fear/question is whether it's sex with me in particular that she's not thrilled about (and could that change? Is it a consequence of her reservations about letting things be serious with me?). We did have pretty good sex in the past, and I sincerely believe it could be awesome in future. Honestly the idea of working on this aspect of our relationship is very appealing to me. Perhaps not to her though! :(

-Honestly I feel almost all negatives I can think of (including the two previous) are a consequence of her reservations about letting herself get to close to me, or letting things become serious. Until such time as that changes (if ever), there will be a tricky-to-overcome cloud, especially around intimacy.




### What still needs clearing up? What do I need to discuss with her?

Qs for her:

- What exactly is her reservation about me moving to Seattle? Can I reassure her? I honestly would quite like to try living in Seattle for a while. Would that bother her (regardless of the status of our relationship moving forward)?

- Is the problem that she's not in love, or that she just doesn't want a boyfriend? Is it possible someone awesome could come along and sweep her off her feet, where I couldn't? (It's ok for her to say so, if true. I mean it'll be a hell of a rejection to me, and my self esteem will hit the floor, but honesty is important, because it tells me where I truly stand.) On reflection, I'm not sure this is really a question I should ask her. Ultimately, the answer in either case is "she doesn't want to date me" and I'm not sure 'precise' reasons behind that are super helpful. Not unless there's some specific obnoxious thing I'm doing (which I'm sure she would already have mentioned).

- My concern is that (to be a cliche) I've come on too strong lately. I'm more ready for a relationship than her, and it's pushing her away. Exactly the same has been done to me in the past, so I know how that feels. I want to apologize for that (it's honestly not a nice position to put someone in), but also it feels 'fixable'. Can we take our relationship back a couple of steps for a while, maybe, while still seeing each other? Maybe let something develop over time? I'm not sure how this would work, because whenever we're actually together we're going to feel like we always do, no? Maybe not (we're currently lacking a final leap into true honesty and intimacy, but we're definitely different on that front today than in the past).

- Maybe this is a hard question for her to answer, but I'd still like to hear more insight into what exactly she feels is 'missing' from our relationship. What's her interpretation of what 'love' really entails? What feeling does she not have today that she's had in the past? One thing that's always struck me as a (very admirable) defining trait of hers is that she is very independent. It strikes me that perhaps this is still somewhat recent for her, and that she's still enjoying/exploring exactly what she likes/doesn't like about this. Does the point/question I made above ring true for her (based on my 'makes you a better version of yourself' theory)? 
[Perhaps her past heartbreak left her in a position where she started to put real value in her singlehood. She is an outstandingly self-sufficient woman who has achieved great success (especially in the form of doing a job she loves while living very comfortably, being able to enjoy herself and her favorite hobbies regularly). I wonder if it's possible that she feels that if my presence is somehow required for increased happiness that she's then somehow giving up something which she has worked hard to achieve and values greatly in herself, namely her status as a strong, independent force of a woman.]

- Is there any aspect of fear that I'll hurt her in future? She has been hurt badly in many previous relationships, is there a concern that I, specifically, could hurt her in a similar way in future, should she let herself be vulnerable with me? Is there anything I can do to help mitigate this?



---
Qs still for me:

- Figure out how I will feel depending on how S answers all of the above questions.

- I am honestly slightly concerned that I still don't really know what _exactly_ it is I want from a relationship and why S in particular intuitively seems to be a perfect answer to that question, while I can't explicitly explain why other than by "she's awesome", "she makes me happy". I do think there's something in the notion of "she gets me". Is it really true that there are few others I can say that about?

- "I don't especially want to be in a relationship [although I find myself increasingly open to the idea, especially vs 12-18 months ago]. All I want is to be around S, because she makes me feel excellent." Can I dive into this more? Is it even true? Maybe I do want to be in a relationship? What exactly do I have when I'm in a relationship vs not? What precisely will I miss if I don't see her again?

- I definitely have a big fear around losing S in particular. I don't know how much of that comes from a (major!) aversion to rejection, and the hit that would put on my self esteem, versus how much of it comes from a worry that I'll never find anyone that makes me feel as good as she does. I don't know how (or if) I can mitigate this. 

--------

Several days later:

I feel like I've gone through a few phases since S and I chatted last Sunday (today is Tuesday, 9 days later). I was absolutely devastated at first. The day at the airport was hell. The next 2 days at work, I was very very distracted and still hadn't really even begun to process what my thoughts were. By Wednesday evening, I had at least begun to form the questions and topics I knew I needed to think through. 

I took Thursday and Friday off work and that's when things first started to change. Thursday in particular I spent 3.5 hours writing and writing through every aspect and angle I could think of. I think I begun to get my head around the idea of not having her in my life. It wasn't a pleasant proposition, and I wouldn't say I was ready for that to be the case, but at least I was allowing myself to contemplate it. I honestly felt significantly better by the end of the day, and for the first time even allowed myself to feel something approaching happiness in small amounts. I spent another hour or so on Friday contemplating everything I'd gone through the previous day, and went out for a couple of drinks in the evening to take my mind off things.

Saturday my mind was off things even more, as I spent 8 hours at the Ixalan pre-release. 

By Sunday, Monday, Tuesday I feel like I've entered another phase. I have been feeling something akin to depression. I ran a couple of quick errands on Sunday, but that was the only time I stepped foot out of the house until Tuesday morning. Dani did come over to watch TV Sunday and Monday evenings, but in both cases it was super low-key and honestly, I'm certain I was terrible company. Just feeling really, really down and I'm trying to figure out why. 

I think part of it may be because of a degree of uncertainty about what's next with me & S. We have plans to meet in person on Saturday afternoon (still 4 days away). She gets into town Friday night and while this is probably overanalyzing, I feel it's not a great sign that she doesn't want to see me until late the next day. I do know she has a very busy schedule with the girls (and maybe it's not such a bad idea for her or me if she's had a chance to talk things through with them before seeing me), so maybe I'm reading too much into that. I am still worried I don't really know precisely what I want or what I'll say. I have the above questions for her, but I'm not sure I've figured out how my options & feelings change depending on her responses. 

Overall I guess I do still want to try and make things work with her, but I'm also trying hard to get used to the idea that she wont. It's a tough spot to be in, because I simultaneously want to direct energy into thinking about several scenarios. First, it's how I can improve my 'chances', what I can and can't do to help make a potential relationship a success (which includes getting my head around a move to Seattle). There's a chance she'll be prepared to give things a go, but going a lot slower for the time being. I need to think about how I feel about this idea, what boundaries and expectations I'd want to set. I suppose, if she is open to this idea, it's something we'd need to talk through, think through some more anyway, so maybe I don't need to devote too much energy to it now, other than enough to articulate it to her as an option.

At the same time I'm trying to get used to the idea that after Saturday, I may never see her again. It's a horrible thought, but one I need to be prepared for, I think. I don't really know what I can do to properly prepare myself for this. Do I plead with her to change her mind? Do I plead with her to compromise (see possibility 3, below)? Do I say 'ok' and go out and fuck the next thing I see?

Harder still might be the 'middle' option that we agree to part ways for now, give her a chance to settle in to life in Seattle & the new job, and try and reconnect at some point in the future. I'm not opposed to this option in principle, but I do think there needs to be some expectations set. To what extent would we remain in touch? Would it be weird if I moved to Seattle anyway? Are we both officially 'single', with no actual expectations that we'll reconnect on day X? Will it even work - last time we did it, I tried to go on a few dates and my mind was constantly distracted by comparisons with S, and in retrospect I wasn't even really trying to start anything that could become 'real' because I was still holding out for S. I'm not getting any younger - how much longer can I keep my romantic life in limbo for? I think realistically, I'm going to need to find sex somewhere. How open do I need/want to be with her about this?

Ultimately I think the funk I'm currently in is because I'm more-or-less ready to have this conversation with her. I'll never be able to 100% think through everything I'll later kick myself about not talking through, but I already have many hours worth of stuff to talk about I think. I suspect she already has a pretty good idea about how she feels and the direction she wants to take things, and it's very hard to just not know what that is yet. Ideally I'd want to have a chat, spend some time thinking about things and then a couple of days later having another chat. That will be hard given our respective locations of course, but not an insurmountable problem. It's also possible that the result of our chat is that we never see each other again. I suppose I'm having a hard time with the possibility that how the conversation goes could potentially shape that. I guess I don't know how certain she's going to be about any decision she's made (if any), and I'm afraid of fucking things up for myself. I guess I'm just really not enjoying this period of limbo I'm in until Saturday. I can certainly keep myself entertained for 4 days so I probably shouldn't be quite so miserable about it all. I just need to stay on top of thinking through how I feel, and all the conversation points I'd like to raise, in particular thinking about how her answers will shape follow-on questions and feelings. 


  
  