---
layout: post
title: "WrestleMania weekend - Day 2"
date: 2017-04-01
---

## WrestleMania weekend - Day 2

WrestleCon, Superstore and NXT

Saw Jeff Hardy in his rental Mustang (only because a little kid was marking the fuck out, which drew my attention). As I walked into the hotel, Matt Hardy and his family walked right past me (like, 3ft) on their way out. At Wrestlecon I saw (but didn't talk to/get photo with/autograph from): Ric Flair; Edge & christian; Sting; DDP; Rob Van Dam (who wasn't at a table - I walked past him down an aisle); Ron Simmons; Teddy Long; The Hurricane; Maria; Earl Hebner; Swoggle... and probably some others I'm forgetting. I also bought a cool Wrestlecon T-Shirt (which I'm wearing as I type this).

The 'superstore' (next door to the actually-interesting event WWE Axxess, which I didn't buy a $55 ticket for) had a bunch of merch for sale. I bought a nice WrestleMania 33 shirt to wear to the show the next day. I was a little disappointed that there weren't more shirts available - I would have bought a certain AJ Styles shirt, and probably a Kevin Owens shirt too. Apparently replica title belts were half-price at $200, which I still can't decide if I'm disappointed not to have capitalized on. 

At about 3pm I walked back to my hotel (2 miles up International Drive, in 90 degree heat) to pick up my bags and get a Lyft to my Airbnb, which is close to downtown Orlando (about 10 miles from my hotel, but only 1.5 miles to the Amway center, and 3 miles from the Citrus Bowl).

At 7, I walked down to the Amway and found my 'President's suite' box seat. I was a little disappointed the 'free beer' feature didn't seem to apply to non-Orlando Magic events, but there was a super drunk guy (with his 2 much more sober friends) who was very friendly and let me pose with his NXT belt.

The show was fun, but asdie from the tag title match, I don't think I enjoyed it as much as those watching at home seemed to. Maybe I just don't love the people in NXT. I'm hoping it wasn't a function of the seats I had, because I'll have those 2 nights later for Raw as well...


