---
layout: post
title: "My love life 2013-present"
date: 2017-10-13
---

I suppose it's been about 2 weeks since I last wrote. That's certainly a big improvement on last time, but I'd really like to increase the frequency to multiple times per week. I've found that merely having an avenue such as this to really express myself has without fail had an enormous positive impact n my wellbeing. So, this is both a chance to explore an interesting topic, and also therapy.

I figured it would be useful both for my future self, and others to document a challenging break-up, but through the lens of my entire love-life leading up to and through the entire relationship.

### My Love Life: 2013 - Present

First let me start off by noting that I often have a hard time discussing personal matters in this blog - not because I don't like to go to those places, and not because I'm embarrassed to expose myself in that way, but because inevitably my personal issues will involve other people who may not want _their_ personal issues exposed on the internet for anyone to see. 

It's a minefield I will attempt to navigate in posts about my breakup - I don't think there's anything in here that will embarrass or shame anyone (other than myself).

#### Some background

I started dating S in January of 2016 - over 20 months ago. We had an excellent first 3 or 4 dates before I left to visit my family in New Zealand for 3 weeks. When I returned, even though we'd been in pretty regular communication during my trip, it definitely felt a little like being back at square one in our fledgling relationship. This would be a recurring pattern over the first few months of our relationship, as I travelled a great deal, particularly in early 2016 (for example 3 weeks in Europe in March/April when I ran the marathon).

When we met, I had only been single for a grand total of 15 months since I started dating my future wife in late 2002. Upon leaving my wife in October 2012 (5 years ago this week!) I _immediately_ got together with M, with literally nothing resembling a normal 'dating' process. She and I had a very interesting, unique relationship that burned brightly but only really lasted about 6 months. By September 2013 we had fully transitioned into 'just good friends' and I finally, for the first time in over a decade, and the first time since I was more-or-less a child, had to come to terms with being single.

#### 2013 & 2014 - Learning how to be single

For the first time in my life, I had to learn how to meet women. I had to learn how to get a date. I had to learn what to do and not do on a date. I had to learn how to flirt with a 'stranger'. I had to learn how to read the signals correctly and lean in for a first kiss. I had to learn how to read the signals correctly and determine when a girl was sufficiently into me to want to have sex. I had to learn how to have that difficult conversation with women when I just wasn't that into them.

Starting in early 2014 I finally started online dating and actually meeting up with people. I had no clue what I was doing. Thinking back, I went on some great dates with some lovely girls and never so much as kissed them even though in retrospect they would definitely have been into it. I really floundered romantically in 2014. I was simultaneously struggling a little with no longer 'being with' M, as well as getting a crash course in what singlehood is like. I went the entire calendar year, and the first 5 or 6 months of 2015 without having sex a single time. Looking back, I'm not entirely sure how I went such a long time. I certainly wanted to. I just couldn't put the pieces together to make it happen. If I couldn't even get sex to happen, you can imagine how far away I was from anything resembling a romantic relationship, and it wasn't for lack of trying. Most people figure this stuff out in their late teens and early 20s. I just never had that experience - I'd always been 'shy' and had a hard time talking to girls. I didn't lose my virginity until I was 19 (with my future wife) and until that point I had basically never had anything even close to what you'd call a girlfriend, while all my friends were happily fucking around like rabbits. 

#### 2015 - Starting to figure it out

I think I matured a lot during 2014 and 2015, but not nearly enough, as will become apparent. Still, after finally breaking my duck with a one-night-stand with an older, conventionally unattractive, but surprisingly fun woman I met on a drunken night out at the Wildcat in Santa Barbara, it felt like the floodgates suddenly opened and a world of opportunities was suddenly before me. 

In July 2015 I unwittingly entered into my first relationship for 2 years. At the time I didn't realize I was in a relationship and I ultimately caused undue pain to the lovely girl I was seeing. She and I had started out as just friends who had a common interest in nerdy movies etc, until one evening when I was over her place watching a movie she came onto me big time. She was reluctant to have sex with someone who wasn't a committed 'boyfriend' but we both clearly wanted to very much (and I didn't have such qualms about being committed), until one day she decided to just go for it. We had a great time for about a month, but I very much tried to keep my distance and never admitted to myself that we were for all practical purposes in a relationship. From my perspective I had finally cracked the code, and at 32 years old was finally, for the first time in my life, ready to play the field. And I did! Of course, I ended up badly hurting a good person, and even though my naivety is in my mind a valid excuse, it doesn't mean I don't regret the pain I caused. 

Over the second half of 2015 my dating life improved dramatically and I slept with something like half a dozen girls in one-night-stands, hookups, and short-term relationships, including one or two ladies who I remain friends with to this day, even though things didn't work out on the romantic side. Rolling into 2016 I was just enjoying dating everyone I could. Not just to sleep with people and then move on (although there was a little of that), but every aspect of dating and starting relationships that I had never experienced in all my preceding 32 years. Looking back, I didn't really have an end-goal in mind. I was just enjoying short-term dating, and meeting lots of interesting new people, and finally having diverse sexual experiences that most people get over 10 years sooner.

#### 2016 - Things get complicated

So we come to January 2016 when I met S. During our first few dates I certainly recognized that this was someone who I liked far more than average, but honestly at that point in my life I was still really enjoying just playing the field and was in no way ready to start a committed relationship. Thinking about it, I actually had (have?) literally no experience going from 'dating' to 'partners'. The only two people I've ever been in a 'serious' relationship with I kinda fell into. I never dated my wife - one day we were friends and housemates, and the next we were a couple and that was it. Something similar happened with M. In early 2016 (and, honestly, probably still today) I had no idea how to recognize when things were becoming serious, how to transition from casual to committed, how to know that's what I wanted, how to have a conversation about this stuff with the other person, and probably a bunch of other things that people who've been in a number of medium and long-term relationships take for granted.

Anyway, the short version of the story is that after dating S for a couple of months she asked me if I'd like to get serious, and I said "I don't know". I think this may well have been a major turning point in our relationship, and I suspect this probably hurt her quite considerably. None-the-less she apparently liked me enough (!) that we continued to date, but also both seeing other people. Around this time I actually started dating less and less as I unconsciously found myself with less and less interest in anyone but S. Unfortunately, looking back, our relationship was actually pretty dysfunctional. We basically never talked about our feelings towards each other. When we hung out it was awesome, but things became increasingly strained and awkward. We actually stopped having sex in June, but continued to 'date' for several more months. We saw less and less of each other, though, and continued to never talk about important stuff. I didn't really recognize it at the time, but I was already in love with her at this point (the good times together were just _so_ good), but I also spent a lot of time in great distress. I really wanted to talk things through with her, but I think at that point I knew deep down what the result of a serious chat would be. In December, after seeing each other so infrequently and in such 'unromantic' contexts, we finally had the conversation and agreed to take a 'break' for at least 3-6 months. I remember that I was quite upset, but I think it was mostly about losing what could have been, rather than what actually was.

#### 1st half of 2017 - Realizing what I want

As 2017 has progressed, I've realized that a serious, committed relationship (with the right person!) actually sounds like a fantastic proposition. I spent the early part of the year traveling a LOT. In part this was deliberately done to take my mind off S, and take a break from relationships altogether so that I could get my head straight and think through what I want. I started to write this blog more often, and I think re-reading some of my posts from that time might provide some interesting insight into how I was processing things.

In late March/April I tried to get back onto the dating wagon. There was a big complication though. There was still a chance that things could work out with S if we could reconnect. She had set such a high bar for what I wanted from a relationship, that a couple of perfectly promising situations fizzled because the prospect of reconnecting with her was still very much on my mind, and meant that I was never going to be able to allow myself to fall for anyone else.

In May we finally reconnected. After getting coffee and drinks a couple of times she sat me down to tell me that it wasn't going to work out. She explained that for over a year she had never really believed I was all that into her, and was just hanging out because... of the convenience, I guess? Because I'd done such a shit job during 2016 of a) knowing what I wanted for myself, and then b) telling her as soon as I'd realized it, I completely screwed up her perception of who I am and how she thought of me. At that point I finally (_finally_) told her how I really felt, and how long I'd felt that way for. I think it was something of a surprise for her, but she agreed to give things a serious try (even though - btw she was going to move over a thousand miles away in a couple of months).

Over the course of June and July I feel our relationship really blossomed. During June there was clearly still some anxiety on both of our parts as we figured each other (and ourselves) out again, but things really seemed to develop exactly as I'd expect and hope a potentially great relationship would. There did remain some issues, and they can all be traced back to her not being 100% into it/me, but they seemed to diminish and diminish especially through July as we saw more and more of each other, I met more of her friends, her family and we were increasingly part of each others' lives. We had some utterly amazing dates and days that I'll remember for the rest of my life. I can honestly say I was as happy as I've ever been.

#### 2017 - August - present

Of course this was all against the backdrop of her early-August move away. In retrospect I wonder if she had (subconsciously?) relaxed her qualms about me, knowing that things may naturally come to an end with us so far apart. I flew out to visit her a couple of weeks after she'd arrived (it had been 3 weeks since I'd seen her) and things were good (especially on the very first day I arrived) but not great. I put it down to the nature of a trip where we were staying in very close quarters and spending every free moment together for 4 straight days. I figured it was inevitable that things would take some time to get used to dealing with 'long distance', but I emotionally prepared myself to move to be closer to her. I sent out job applications, drove around different neighborhoods and looked at property listings to rent and to buy. 

Another 3 weeks passed until I visited again. Things had been harder while we were separated - communication didn't come so easily, finding time to maintain the relationship was hard and didn't come naturally to either of us. The second visit went similarly to the first: we had some great times together, but also a fair amount of awkwardness and difficulty was present. I knew we needed to talk through how things were going, so on my last day there we did exactly that, with things going about as badly as I could have hoped.

She told me that while she absolutely loved the good times we spent together, and while she was unable to identify any specific thing that she didn't like about me, that she simply wasn't able to be in love with me in the same way I was (am?) with her. We ended things on that trip with it being 90% done, but with maybe a chance that with a couple of weeks off not seeing each other (until her long-scheduled visit back to Denver) that maybe there was still a chance things might work out. Of course, that didn't happen, and she was forced to tell me (again) that it wasn't going to work. That she was never going to be able to feel that way about me. If I was "upset" in December, and "very, very upset" two weeks prior, I was "absolutely heartbroken and devastated" this time.

That conversation was two weeks ago, and while the raw emotion, tears and depression have subsided, I'm still profoundly unhappy about the whole thing. Initially it really felt like the floor had fallen out from under my life. I perhaps didn't realize the extent to which I was doing it at the time, but I was fully emotionally invested in both the relationship and moving my whole life out to be near her. I've realized in these past two weeks just how often I think of her in so many different situations throughout my day. Listening to music. Watching certain TV shows. Reading certain blogs and articles. Looking at the weather. Thinking about what I'm going to wear. Driving in my car. Going to certain bars and restaurants. All. The. Goddamn. Time!

#### Looking forward to the end of 2017 and beyond

Logically I know I need to draw a line under the whole thing. She has made her position clear and it's time for me to move on with my life. Much as I try not to though, a big part of me continuously wrestles with 'what if?' and 'is there still some way?'. I can't help but feel that I really blew it over the course of the 2nd quarter of 2016, and drastically changed her impression of me and her ability to allow herself to fully let her guard down around me and commit to a relationship with me. Given that, I can't help but feel that must be reversible. If enough time passes, or if I say or do the right things, maybe she'll realize how much better her life is when I'm in it versus when I'm not. Sadly, another part of me knows there's a good chance she sincerely feels that her life is just as good (or better) when I'm not in it to repeatedly make her feel bad about how things are (not) working out. She's far more capable than I am of having great times with her many fun friends, so in a very real way she needs me a hell of a lot less than I need her. And then I start thinking that in itself may be part of the problem. My dependence on her to be happy is probably pretty unattractive/uncomfortable for her.

I do miss her though, and I wonder if we can be friends. She remains a fantastic person and I think I'd be foolish not to consider how we can be in each others' lives, even in a platonic capacity. I think I still have a deal of healing to do before I'm at that point. I know if we hung out today, for instance, that I'd still be thinking about what I could say or do to convince her to give me another try. At this point it's hard to imagine a time where I wont feel that way. The way she makes me feel is so intoxicating, the love I feel for her is something that I've never encountered in anyone else I've ever met and I honestly don't have the experience to know if or how it will fade with time. I worry about how these feelings will effect future relationships I try to build.

So, here in late 2017 I find myself in a very different position to early 2016. Suddenly all I can think about is how awesome a long-term relationship with exactly the right person would be. Dating around sounds terrible and stressful. And the challenge of finding 'the one' sounds almost insurmountable now that I know how awesome things can be. 

Is it better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all? I will always have those amazing memories, and for the first time in my life I now have a tangible relationship goal that I actually want to aim for. On the other hand, it's hard to imagine that I wont be continuing to feel this huge sense of loss for a very, very long time to come. 

