---
layout: post
title: "Running"
date: 2017-02-25
---

### Running

It recently occurred to me that I have never written anything at all about running, despite it being one of my major hobbies. I don't always think of running as a hobby - it's not like I talk about it with other people, regularly go on forums about it, etc. But none-the-less running takes up a sufficiently large portion of my life that it undoubtedly qualifies.

I'm currently training for the Colfax Half-Marathon. Now, 'training' for a race can mean different things to different people, but I suppose I could be considered a semi-advanced runner. I could close my laptop and go and run a sub 2:00 half marathon right now, I'm pretty sure (and I already ran 6 miles this morning). My personal record at the 13.1 mile distance is 1:31:34, set about 15 months ago in Santa Barbara. I believe that was the 3rd half-marathon I'd ever run at the time. I did next to no specific training for that race - I had just been running 3ish times per week, and made sure to do a few longer-than-average and faster-than-average runs in the weeks leading up to the race. Doing my regular runs at Denver's altitude and then having race-day be at sea level made things a little easier, though I was certainly exhausted at the end of that race.

Around the time I ran that race my friend Alison invited me to run the Paris marathon with her in April 2016. I'd never run a marathon before, and had only recently come around to the idea that I'd like to try to at least run one in my life. Furthermore, I decided that if I was going to do it, I wanted to train _properly_, so that if it really was the only marathon I ever ran, I could feel proud of the time I achieved. I did some online research about training plans and ended up buying Hansen's Marathon Method, which is a great book that goes into a lot of detail about how to train, and why their exercise regime makes sense. The book prescribes an 18-week training plan in which you run 6 days per week, at very specific distances and speeds, all designed so that on race-day you achieve your target time.

I had no idea what target time to choose, and furthermore, the first few weeks of training was badly disrupted by a foot injury. In the end I ran the marathon in 3:25, which I would have been delighted with 18-weeks prior, but was actually a little disappointed with in the end. I plan on writing in more detail about the specifics of that race in a future post.

Fast-forward 12 months later and I had only casually run a couple of races, at times far less than I knew I was capable of. Without a specific goal in mind, I was only running 2 or 3 times per week, and it was all all a little aimless - just an exercise in keeping myself from getting too far out of running shape.

I decided I needed to inject some life back into my workout regime by training for a new race. I chose the Colfax Half-Marathon because it was still 4 months out, because it is in my home town, because I had never seriously trained for the half-marathon distance despite running 4 or 5 of them before, and because I couldn't bring myself to train for another marathon just yet. I didn't really know what target time to set for myself. I read guides online about "if you can run X distance in Y time, then your target time for distance Z is..." and I tried to factor in the fact that this race will be a mile above sea-level, which has a huge impact on performance. I settled on a target time of 1:25, which means a pace of about 6 minutes and 30 seconds per mile. My previous best half-marathon time was at a pace of 6:59, at sea-level, so this is aggressive. Honestly, I'll be very happy if I finish faster than 1:30. (Incidentally, a time of 1:25:00 would have put me at 18th place out of 5000 in last year's race. As it was, my time of 1:36:02 put me at 122nd.)

The folks behind the marathon training guide I followed 15 months ago have a half-marathon plan that's very similar. So, I find myself running 6 days, at a total distance of about 45 miles, per week. Three days are at an 'easy' pace and shorter distances, about 2 minutes per mile slower than my target race-pace. One day is a 'distance' run at about 30 seconds per mile slower than my target pace. One day is a speed/strength training day, where I do a number of 0.25-3 mile intervals at 10-20 seconds faster than target pace. The final (non-rest) day is a 'tempo' run, where each week I run increasingly far at my target race-pace, up to a distance of 7 miles in the final few weeks. I follow each run with a series of stretches, and have additional bodyweight exercises designed to build up relevant muscles.

There are 168 hours in a week. Assuming I spend 8 per day in bed, an hour per day cooking/eating, and 40 per week working, that leaves 65 'free' hours per week. Between warm ups, cool downs, driving to diverse locations to run, stretching and running itself, I'd guess I devote around 10 of those hours to this activity, which I feel puts it firmly in 'major hobby' territory.

I'm currently on week 6 of the plan, and while it's been a challenge to keep to my schedule amid all my recent travel, I feel good that I've only really missed a single day of training so far (a 4 mile 'easy' run). I've already noticed a number of improvements and changes. In the first few weeks I really felt very sore almost all the time, but that seems to be passing. As I looked ahead to the speeds and distances ramping up, I had a lot of anxiety that I wouldn't be able to manage, and yet I'm really finding that I'm keeping up. The 'hard' days are still really damn hard, but I _can_ just about do them. Yesterday I ran 4 miles in about 26 minutes and 25 seconds (at altitude). I never would have been able to do that a month ago.

As I wrote all of the above, I've been trying to think about what would be in my final paragraph, in which I want to explain exactly what it is I enjoy about all of this. Honestly, I'm still not entirely sure I have a good explanation. It's certainly rewarding to set a series of increasingly challenging goals and to just about achieve them. I do enjoy just being on a run - I rarely listen to music and prefer instead to just be with my thoughts and focussed on my pace and distance - it's almost meditative at times. At least three or four times a week I try to run somewhere 'interesting' so I see some fun stuff, can people watch, admire parks, cityscapes, mountain views, etc. Overall, I suppose, it's something that I know I'm good at, and that I continue to get better at - and the nature of this activity means I have numbers to prove it. I suppose I'd conclude that the reason I enjoy it is simply because it's healthy and rewarding to have such activities in one's life. I'm enjoying this one before I get too old to continue to improve :)

