---
layout: post
title: "WrestleMania weekend - Days 4 & 5"
date: 2017-04-03
---

### Raw after 'Mania

After a late night getting in after Wrestlemania It took a while to muster myself on Monday morning. Luckily, being on the East coast, meant I could get away with starting work pretty late in the morning, so I wandered down to Starbucks at about 9, from where I worked for most of the day.

At about 6:30 I walked back into the city center and back to the Amway, where I sat in the same box I had 2 nights before, at the NXT show. 

The show itself was a fun one, for sure (as is to be expected for the Raw after 'Mania). In particular, the opening segment in which the crowd gave Roman Reigns unbelievable heat for about 10 straight minutes is a moment that will go down in history. Other noteworthy moments: A rare Vince McMahon appearance - announcing Kurt Angle as new GM (!!); The return of Finn Balor; Amazing Sheamus & Cesaro sing-song chant 

### SmackDown after 'Mania

I spent another day working from Starbucks, before heading back to my room to pack my bag prior to walking down to the Amway one last time. I had absolutely killer seats for Smackdown, 5 rows up, right in the camera shot. Upon re-watching the show later, I could pick myself out in numerous wide-angle shots, and I was also the featured 'member of the crowd reacting' for Tye Dillinger's and Nakamura's debuts and for AJ Styles' promo. I even showed up on Talking Smack, during Tye Dillinger's interview about what an awesome reaction he got. 

This was a really fun show to be at, and my awesome seats, next to some other passionate, loud fans were worth every penny. 


