---
layout: post
title: "What is Love?"
date: 2017-09-21
---

Oh boy, this is probably going to (attempt to) be a much deeper post than most of my previous.

### Intro

My recent romantic ups and downs have me thinking about the question of what 'love' exactly is. How easy is it to come by? How important is it? What can cause someone go from 'not in love' to 'in love' (and vice-versa)? Can you be in love without thinking you are? Can you think you're in love without being so? So many hard-to-answer questions!

I don't think it's too controversial to suggest that love comes in more than one form. The love we have for our close family members and friends is somewhat different from the love we have for a romantic partner. The former is a general sense of goodwill we have; a desire for those people to have a happy, healthy life, and for us to be a part of that life. I think all of those things hold true for romantic love too, but there's also something extra. Most of what I write below is an attempt (for my own sake) to argue that the 'something extra' isn't just 'good sex'. When I say 'love' in this post, I mean that harder to find, harder to quantify notion of romantic love.

#### Can we define love?

I don't recall much _specific_ advice that I got from my therapist 5 years ago, but one thing that has always stuck with me was a definition of love that he gave: We are in love with people that make us feel like we are better people (or "better versions of ourselves") when they're around. I think back on the times I've believed myself to be in love (not that they're many) and I do think that in every case I definitely feel that person made me a 'better' person. The times when I felt love for my wife were when I was able to be a productive, caring, supportive partner. In doing things to make her (and our) lives more comfortable, I was being driven to enhance personality traits that I consider to be desirable - a work ethic, sensitivity, etc. Interestingly, I feel my wife also had the _opposite_ effect on certain other personality traits. Very much the other side of the 'love' coin (hatred?). She emotionally abused me in such a way as to drastically diminish my sense of self-worth and assertiveness. She also placed a pretty low value on 'fun' that meant I felt like I became a boring person. Ultimately these negative aspects increasingly overwhelmed the positives (which in some cases I've been able to replace/replicate and in some I haven't) and I had to leave. I was not 'in love' and I was confident I never would be again. It has also made me question whether I ever actually was 'in love'. 

If we allow love to have degrees, I think I probably did love my wife, to an extent, for a time. If we're saying that love is a set of positive attributes another person's company brings out in you, then perhaps we can somewhat quantify just how many of these positives are added (and compare them with any negatives) and come up with a hypothetical 'score' for how 'in love' you are with that person. I'm warming to this idea, though it's pretty 'unromantic', and may well be missing some key component. I want to explore this idea below by also assessing my other two major romantic relationships.

#### Relationship number two

My second 'love' was M. This was a love that burned bright and burned out quickly. When I first met her, she certainly made me feel fantastic. She made me realize just how much control I have over my own life and destiny and that I have the power to say 'no' to situations that I don't want to be in. She simultaneously taught me a great deal about fitness and nutrition, and I lost 30lbs in the first 6 months of knowing her - weight that 5 years later I've only (temporarily!!) regained 5lbs of. In addition I'm significantly fitter and faster than ever - thanks to lessons I learned from M. I feel she literally transformed me into a happier, more successful, healthier person. As she was doing so, I was very much in love with her, but once the lessons were learned I think the love faded fast. I realized that I was still that same awesome person whether she was around or not. Since this relationship, I've often wondered if what I felt really was love, but I think I've just convinced myself that it was. It's just that it was destined to be fleeting because of the nature of our specific dynamic, and the place I was in and person I was when we met, versus a few months later. One thing's for sure: I'm very, very grateful we met. I don't think it's overly dramatic to say that in a very real sense she saved my life.

#### The most raw and recent relationship

Now we come to my third and most recent love, S. Our relationship has been somewhat on-again-off-again for a while, and I recently found something that I wrote when we first 'broke up' about nine months ago. It's interesting how closely it mirrors some of the thoughts I still have about her today. When I'm in her company I feel particularly happy. It's a strange kind of comfort/happiness that I don't ever recall feeling around anyone else. I've been trying to figure out if there's something inherent about her personality that simply meshes so well with my own that I feel a connection that just feels _good_. Or whether I feel sufficiently many of my personality traits are enhanced around her, that it simply makes me happy/content. Maybe that feeling of 'happiness' I'm trying to describe _is_ love - that's what it feels like to be in love with someone. But that doesn't answer the question of _why_. She has certainly enhanced my appreciation for things I never had much interest in before, such as art and certain genres of music (certain song lyrics suddenly mean something!). She seems to enjoy the dorkiest and most 'real' aspects of my personality in a truly sincere way that makes me feel more comfortable and confident being the 'real' me. She generally makes me feel like this is a life worth living, because there's so much to enjoy in it. I'm not sure I ever felt that way before, and I worry that without her around, that feeling begins to fade. I feel like I'm still struggling to properly answer the question of 'why' I love her. Maybe more time needs to pass so I can look back with hindsight. One thing's for sure - now that I've experienced it, until I have it again, I will forever be searching for that special feeling of happiness (aka 'love?').

#### Drawing conclusions

In thinking back on past instances of love I've experienced, I have a few concluding thoughts. It certainly seems to me that there are degrees of love. I'd like to believe there's some threshold you can hit where a person goes from someone you have loving feelings for, to being able to declare yourself full-on 'in love'. I think this can explain how someone can _think_ they're 'in love', when perhaps later they realize they weren't really - they were just close to, but ultimately below, that threshold. Or maybe that person really did make them feel great in a number of ways, but also shitty in a bunch of others. Since people change, I think it also makes sense that you can fall both in and out of love. If someone stops providing whatever it is that makes you feel great in their presence, then the love will fade. On the other hand, I think it stands to reason that someone could change in such a way as to suddenly start to provide something extra that enhances feelings of love. It strikes me that if there are numerous ways in which a person's company can make you feel like a better version of yourself, that some of those 'ways' might be more permanent or harder to replicate than others. M made me feel empowered. But once I felt empowered _she_ was no longer the one making me feel that way. S's personality seems just configured to make me feel that the person I am naturally is awesome. Can I feel that way without her? 

For my own sanity, I choose to believe that long-term love is possible, and that therefore there must be some ways in which a (specific) second person is simply necessary for us to feel like the best version of ourselves. Can a thoughtful person identify when a person is doing that for them? Can we distinguish potential 'long term' ways a person makes us feel great, versus the more fleeting ways?

I do think that we can fall in love with someone without being conscious about exactly what it is about that person that makes us love them. Furthermore I think we can then believe ourselves to remain in love with someone, even if/while the initial reasons we love them fade or go away entirely. I think our brains are inherently lazy and it's very hard to 'suddenly' not be in love with someone. When we are so used to that warm feeling of 'love' when we're around a person, we perhaps start to feel it without the presence of what brought it on in the first place. We will have a very hard time noticing this has happened if we were not conscious of what brought on the loving feelings initially. If our lover does something hurtful, or ends the relationship, it can be very hard to get used to the idea of not having that feeling any more - even though the reasons behind that feeling might be long since gone.

