---
layout: post
title: "A good time for a Q3 review"
date: 2017-09-21
---

I don't know if it's worth writing a summary of the things that have happened since the last time I wrote. At that point it felt like an eternity since I'd last written. Here I am over two months on since then and it feels like I only just wrote. We're very nearly at the end of Q3, so maybe now's a decent time to review the past quarter-year.

### Q3 Review

July was more awesome quality time with S. In particular she spent all day with me on my Birthday and we had great fun bar-hopping. I also continued to spend time developing my friendship with Dani, and also spending increasing amounts of time with her friends (such as at a beer garden in Boulder on Saturday afternoon). I rounded out the month spending a lot of time helping S get ready to move out of her place and across the county. At one stage we saw each other every day for a straight week. Even though I was often doing 'labor' around her house, tripping to Home Depot etc, it felt like fantastic quality-time. Honestly, exactly the kind of experience I want from a relationship.

Early August S finally took off, and after spending a great deal of my free time with her, I suddenly wouldn't see her until August 20th. Before then, I spent a good chunk of time getting more into and (hopefully) better at Magic, also introducing Dani to the game. Had a fun night out on a random Thursday when Dani's friend Hannah was in town (we stayed up drinking and karaoke-ing at my house until 4am). Mid August I flew to the Bay area for Yoshi's wedding where I caught up with a lot of old grad school friends I hadn't seen in years. I wonder how long it will be until I see some of them again? It was a fun wedding with good food, drinking and dancing and the next morning I flew from Oakland to see S. It was kinda awkward in that we 'lived' in an Airbnb for 4 days. We didn't really have access to any living area other than a spartan bedroom. It was great seeing S, but it was also just a slight element of discomfort from both of us too - suddenly living in such close quarters for several straight days.

September seems to have flown past. I had three weeks between heading across the country to see S again. In the past few months (really since moving to my new place/running the Colfax half) I had really begun to let my exercise regiment (and calorie controlled eating) slide. I've put on about 5 pounds and seem to be up to about 175lbs. In September I've been much better about being back on the wagon (from the exercise side especially). I've signed up for the hot chocolate 15k on Oct 1st, and that's motivated me to actually get properly running again. On the the final day of my 2nd trip to see S (Sunday September 17th) I decided we needed to have an honest discussion about how our relationship was working out. It was a very tough conversation, but we tentatively came to the conclusion that despite the fact that we both care very, very much for each other, that something isn't quite 'right' and we may need to stop seeing each other. This has left me very, very sad for the past few days, culminating in me needing to take today off work entirely to take stock. There's no question in my mind that I'm very much in love with her, and that not having her in my life feels... wrong. I'm going to spend more time in the next few days really thinking through how I feel about her and the prospect of not being with her.

I close the quarter wondering just what the shape of my love-life will be for the remainder of the year, and also excited about continuing to get into and improve at Magic. I have a big trip to Santa Barbara coming in about a month, two WWE shows to attend in Denver, at least one race (and I want to sign up for more), and possible trips to the UK and Hawaii. Just as throughout this year, it promises to be a very interesting, key three months.

